# PoliMovie-Dataset-for-Recommender-Systems

# PoliMovie-Dataset

###SUMMARY

This dataset collected through an online survey application and is still in progress. 
It contains ratings of 334 users on almost 1700 movies and also some features of movies including: genres, casts, directors, movie year, movie production country.
Data are filtered by ONLY reliable users. (Some strong data consistensy check was performed to recognize random or unreliable answers)


###SOME STATISTICS OF THE DATASET

Up to now, 1077 movies, almost 300 casts, 200 directors, and all genres have been selected as favorite at least by one user.
I plan to regularly update the dataset. The data are contained in 4 files: userMovieRatings, userCastRatings, userDirectorRatings and userGenreRatings.
All ratings are binary (Users only selected their favorites , so we have only "likes"). 



###USAGE LISENCE

Neither the Politecnic University of Milan nor any of the researchers involved can guarantee the correctness of the data, its suitability for any particular purpose, or the validity of results based on the use of the data set. The data set may be used for any research purposes under the following conditions:

-The user may not redistribute the data without separate permission.
-The user may not use this information for any commercial or revenue-bearing purposes without first obtaining permission from the authors.

If you are goring to publish a paper using this dataset, please cite the following paper:

@inproceedings{nasery2015polimovie,
  title={PoliMovie: a feature-based dataset for recommender systems},
  author={Nasery, Mona and Elahi, Mehdi and Cremonesi, Paolo},
  booktitle={ACM RecSys 2015 CrowdRec Workshop},
  year={2015}
}

For any further questions or comments, please contact Mona Nasery by email: mona.naseri89@gmail.com


###ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This dataset is collected and generated by Mona Nasery (mona.naseri89@gmail.com).



###FILES CONTENTS AND DATA STRUCTURE

**userMovieRatings.csv**
This file Contains the movies selected (liked) by reliable users (332 users and 1610 distinct movies). Each line of this file represents a movie liked by a user (user may like more than one movie), and has the following format:

userId,answer,movieName,ImdbId,ImdbRate,year,numVotes

*userId*: unique Id of each user.
*answer*: movies selected by users with the format "movieName_year", e.g., "Pulp Fiction_1994"
*movieName*: movie title
*ImdbId*: unique IMDB Id of movies
*ImdbRate*: overall rate of a movie 
*year*: movie year
*numVotes*: total number of ratings provided by Imdb users on movies

**userCastRating.csv**
It contains the casts explicitly selected (liked) by reliable users (335 users and 421 distinct casts). Each line of this file represents a cast liked by a user (user may like more than one cast), and has the following format:

workerId,starImdbID

*workerId*: unique Id of each user
*starImdbID*: unique IMDB Id of casts

**userDirectorRatings.csv**
 It contains the directors explicitly selected (liked) by reliable users (321 users and 299 distinct directors). Each line of this file represents a director liked by a user (user may like more than one director), and has the following format:

worker_Id, directorImdbID

*worker_Id*: unique Id of users
*directorImdbID*: unique IMDB Id of directors
